Industry and government use many of the same
procurement techniques to obtain goods and services.
Examples of these similarities are Prime Vendors
to take advantage of special capabilities of suppliers,
on-demand manufacturing for low-demand parts,
strategic alliances to develop integrated partnerships,
reverse auctioning for price sensitive commodities,
and performance-based contracting
to achieve a certain end result.
Perhaps the biggest difference between government
and industry is that government agencies
have special federal regulations
that required a diverse base of suppliers.
An additional difference is government differentiation
between procurement and acquisition.
Acquisition may be likened to capital purchases in industry.
An example of procurement in government would include
VA hospitals buying medical supplies from the Prime Vendor.